>> James Halliday: Okay, so
why don't we talk now a little
bit about character classes.
So, character classes
are ways of specifying
different characters that could match.
So we've already seen an example of
dot which matches any character.
But we couldn't match for example
just several of a set of characters.
So maybe we want to match, so
if we have a string
>> James Halliday: 'dog
>> James Halliday: days'.
>> James Halliday: If we wanna match
both D-O and D-A, we could make a little
regex that will take d and
then start with a square brace.
And then just list out the characters
that it could possibly be.
And then we can replace that with
>> James Halliday: Capital DA,
for example.
So matches these two things.
>> James Halliday: Where it starts to get
really fun is you can match things like
character classes,
you can put quantifiers around.
So, for example, if we wanna match one or
more of either a or
o, WE Can put a + after
that character class.
And now it's gonna take that
whole string of D-O-O-O-O-O and
it's gonna replace it with DA.
>> James Halliday: That's
something you can try.
>> James Halliday: So we might also wanna
do something like put all the vowels,
aeiou, and replace it.
So now if we have like deg,
it also matches.
You can also do the negation of
a character class by putting
a caret at the start, so
that will match any vowel.
In this case,
we don't have any of the letter d that's
followed by a non-vowel, so
it won't match anything.
But we could put some in there, so, like,
dx matches now because d
is followed by a non-vowel.
>> James Halliday: More
about character classes,
you can specify ranges that the character
classes can be using a hyphen.
So for example, if we wanna
match things like numbers,
>> James Halliday: So if we wanna match
all of the numbers in here,
we can do that by doing 0-9.
And then if we want one or
more numbers, we can use a +.
>> James Halliday: And so this will remove
all of the numbers from that output.
>> James Halliday: So
we just see the word hello what.
You can also do the same
thing with letters, so
if we have things like a-z, so
we'll replace all of the letters.
You can mix and match ranges.
So you can have capital letters and
lower case letters all in a replacement,
like that.
>> James Halliday: So if we had some
capital letters in there, let's put a few.
It replaces them,
whereas before, it would not.
You can also put more characters
in there if you wanna match,
like, underscores as well.
Oops!
>> James Halliday: So
if we wanna match A through Z capital,
a through z lowercase in underscore.
And if there is like underscores
in here that we wanna get rid off,
then that also gets rid
of the underscores.
>> Speaker 2: You have
the escape spaces there?
>> James Halliday: You
have to escape spaces-
>> Speaker 2: Or what happens if you
wanna put spaces in those brackets?
>> James Halliday: You can do that.
It's fine.
>> Speaker 2: Or tabs?
>> James Halliday: Yeah, you can do that.
I don't know how to type a tab but
you can do it somehow.
[LAUGH] Probably by writing
a program to do it.
So that also got rid of the space.
We can see.
>> James Halliday: I see on the chat that
someone asks is RegEx knowledge useful or
very useful in REST API development.
RegEx is one of those things
that if you don't know RegEx,
you're not gonna use it, and
you can get by without it.
But if you do know RegEx,
you're gonna be so
much better off when you see a problem
where RegEx is pissed at you.
Recently I read a bunch of
code that had for example,
it was a parser and
it had all of these slice calls in it and
it was doing index of everywhere and
it was just all of this integer math.
When a handful of RegExs would
probably be much simpler and
much easier to understand and
probably also faster too because these
RegEx engines are heavily,
heavily optimized.
And could avoid doing a bunch of
allocations and things of that sort.
It's sort of the kind of topic
that is as useful as you make it.
I don't know.
I don't have a good answer to that
question, but I know that I personally
write RegEx like every single day and
all the kinds of stuff that I do.
So
>> James Halliday: You can
certainly get away with not knowing it,
but
it's probably best to know
it [LAUGH] rather than not.
I'll show you how do some
of this in Node as well.
So if we have like this string,
we can do .replace would be the word.
So much of the time when
you're programming something,
you have a little bit of string that
you just need to slice up a bit.
And RegEx is
>> James Halliday: Oftentimes
the best way to do that.
So you have some prefix
you wanna get rid of,
or some kind of string format you
need to split up and repackage.
So we can just get rid of all
of the certain characters.
So if you have to test whether a password
field has the right characters in it,
you could do that with a RegEx pretty
easily with a character class and
maybe some quantifiers.
You could use curly braces.
Here let's build one of those,
that would be kind of fun.
So we can test whether a password field
is acceptable under some policies.
So suppose that we need to have
at least eight characters and
it has to contain a number and
a lower case letter and
a capital letter and
one of a handful of symbols.
So we can do that.
>> James Halliday: So if we have,
>> James Halliday: This
is gonna be our test password,
>> James Halliday: Which,
autopass I think.
If we have a capital in it.
So we can do something like,
starting at the beginning,
I'll get a little more
into how that works.
But we can use quantifiers now.
So it has to have at least eight
characters and $ means go to the end.
That's in the notes as well.
So we need to have
a pattern that's going to
be capitals, and lowercase and digits.
And there is a shortcut for
this called \w for word character.
So we can test
>> James Halliday: Whether
that condition is true
with their password.
It's not in this case because there's
non-word characters there like
an exclamation mark, so we can modify the
character class to include some symbols.
>> James Halliday: I'll
just hit the top key there.
And if you have a dash, it's little bit
special because you have to escape that
with backslash if you don't
want it to be a range.
So in this case that part is true.
So how do we enforce the second part
of our password policy which is it
has to have at least a capital letter,
at least a lower case,
at least a number, or at least a symbol.
So we can do that by either testing
each one of those cases, or
doing it in the same RegEx is probably
possible, but I wouldn't do that.
I would just do it the simpler way.
So we need to make sure that there's
at least one lowercase letter.
And at least one uppercase letter.
And at least one digit,
which you can do 0 through 9, or
there's another shortcut called \d
that matches any digit character.
So do it that way, or you can do \d.
And at least one symbol, so
if we have a character class where we
can type out all of
the symbols that are allowed,
being a bit careful about the dash
because to escape that one.
>> James Halliday: Then, the password
that we've defined in pw matches.
If we do another password,
>> James Halliday: Password
doesn't match our policy.
So this is kind of a more practical
example of something when you might need
RegEX in sort of a rest server
in HTTP layer, for example.
I'll paste that into the chat,
if you wanna mess with it.
>> James Halliday: So
hopefully this makes sense.
We didn't cover yet what the anchors do,
but I can just get into that in a sec.
Negating character classes is
sometimes useful if you want to do
things like match brackets.
So for example, if you have some text and
you wanna match whatever
is in the brackets.
I would caution you not to use RegExs for
parsing things like HTML because
they're actually nested.
And so RegEx is not really a good tool for
that, you should use a parser.
But if you have just some simple formatted
text that's like relatively uniform,
then you can use it for that as well.
So if we wanna replace anything
that begins with a bracket
and has a character class
that's any character
that's not a right-angled bracket, one or
more of those up to
a closing angle bracket.
Then we will replace it with string XXX.
Does that make sense?
It's kind of a lot to digest.
>> James Halliday: So here we're
just using the negation of that.
It's also useful if you wanna,
for example,
if you wanna match where some quotes
begin and where the quotes end.
>> James Halliday: Then we can modify
this so that we're doing quotes instead.
And it's the same idea.
>> James Halliday: So oftentimes you
might have, for whatever reason,
some strings quoted for whatever reason.
But this is a handy way to do that.
It gets more complicated if
you wanna address things,
like if you have a backslash quote
that you don't want to show up.
Maybe we can do that at the end, once
I've covered kind of all of the rules for
how to build RegExs.
>> Speaker 2: That top line there,
can you just verbally say what
you're doing there again.
>> James Halliday: Yeah, so all right.
So we have the string, cool and then
beans is inside of angle brackets, right?
Open angle bracket, close angle bracket.
And then some other fluff at the end.
So what this RegEx says,
is it says, okay, RegEx engine,
I want you to find starting
from a left angle bracket,
once you've found one of those,
here's what you gotta do.
After the opening angle bracket,
search for this character class.
This character class means anything
that is not a right angle bracket.
And then it says, one or
more of those kind of characters.
So basically, step through that pattern,
which is like anything that's not a right
bracket, I want you to keep going,
keep going, keep going until
you hit one and then stop.
And then I want you to match that right
angle bracket that you stopped on.
And that whole pattern,
that you found RegEx engine,
I want you to replace that with
the string XXX which is what it does.
So I can maybe walk through a couple
of cases where it wouldn't do that,
like if there's no closing angle bracket,
it won't replace, because
the RegEx engine will actually go all
the way to the end of the string and
it never found a closing angle bracket.
So it's not gonna replace it.
Could also maybe that is at
the end of the string, same deal.
>> James Halliday: Does that help?
Are people kind of getting how
this little machine works?
Cuz we are building little machines
here with this RegEX language.
Okay, cool.
>> James Halliday: So it takes a lot of
practice to kind of internalize these, but
very powerful.
I use them all the time.
I personally vouch for them.
[LAUGH] Okay, so we used a couple of these
already in some of the other sections,
but there are a bunch of shortcuts you
can use for different character classes.
There is word characters,
there's white space characters,
there's digits which are w,
s for white space, d for digit.
And there's also the negations, which are
capitalized versions of those shortcuts.
So if you have W, it means anything
that's not a word character.
So it's the same as doing each
of these character classes.
So here we have, for words,
A through Z, capital and
lower case, and digits 0 through 9 and
also underscore.
But then the negation just
puts a caret inside of
the character class as the first element.
And it does that for
all of these different things.
>> Speaker 2: Can you mix that?
Can I start,
I don't know if you'd wanna do this.
But can you start with positives and
then obviously put a caret in and
anything after that is a negation?
Or would you not do it that way?
>> James Halliday: No, the negations
can only be at the start
of the character class.
>> Speaker 2: Got it.
>> James Halliday: So you probably have to
have a couple of different
character classes if you
wanna do something like that.
Okay, so these are just kind of the stuff
you get for free in almost any engine or
you might have felt like
toggle extended notice,
something silly like that to get it.
But if the engine you're
using doesn't support these,
you can always use the more long
form version of these rules.